# VCD to SVG converter
# This program is not in a working state yet!
# Unfinished!!!!
This is a program that will eventually be able to generate a diagram from a VCD input. It is written in C without any parser libraries because I am a masochist. I wrote this for the 5 people on this planet that, like me, *hate* it when they have to include a screenshot of a GTKWave/ModelSim waveform into a report. There are going to be a few settings you can adjust. Usage will be as follows:

```bash
./vcd2svg [OPTIONS] INPUT [OUTPUT]
```
Here, INPUT is the input file, and output the output file (wow). The placement of the options doesn't matter you can place those anywhere. If no output file is provided the SVG output will be dumped to stdout for easy piping. The following options are available:

* `-s, --signals=SIGNALS`\
The names of the signals you want displayed, in the order you want them displayed. Without this option, all signals will be displayed. See [Signal specification] for more info.

* `-i, --interval=INTERVAL` Specify the time interval to make a diagram of. Time should be given followed by a unit, otherwise raw time integer values are used. Time can be specified in the following ways:
  - `3us` 0us - 3us
  - `3:10us` 3us - 10us
  - `:10ms` 0ms - 10ms
  - `12ns:` 12ns - end of file
  - `200us:3ms` 300us - 3ms

* `-h, --height=HEIGHT`\
Set the height of one waveform.
* `-w, --width=WIDTH`\
Set the width of the *waveform*. The full image is larger, since signal names are added.
* `-W, --image-width=IMAGE_WIDTH`\
Set the width of the entire image, including signal names. Setting both **-w** and **-W** is possible but will result in unexpected behavior. 
* `-m, --margin=MARGIN`\
Set the vertical margin between waves. A MARGIN of 0 will make the waves kiss. Default is **idk**.

* `-f, --force` Do not prompt before overwriting.
* `-F, --hard-force` Do not prompt anything. Useful for piping. Will supress warnings like "this diagram will be absurdly long, are you sure?"

* `-l, --list-signals`\
List all drawable signals.

## Signal specification
There'll be a few options you can do in the command line but the easiest way to change the signals is by using a YAML file. A template YAML file can be generated by running the tool like this:
```bash
./vcd2svg --gen-yaml VCD_FILE
```
Including the vcd file here is important because it automatically adds all signals to the yaml file. You can then change those signals' styles however you want.

You can use the YAML file by using the `-y,--yaml` option like this:
```bash
./vcd2svg --yaml YAML_FIKE VCD_FILE
```
But a much easier way is to name the yaml file `vcd2svgstyle.yaml` and place it in the directory you're currently using, or the directory the vcd file is in. You can also add a global style file in your home directory called `.vcd2svgstyle.yaml`. If you don't like any of these features you can turn them off using some defines in a file I've yet to write.
